Mapping improvements to add additional groups (#18713)
containers/podman: docs/source/markdown/options/uidmap.container.md

####>   podman create, run
####> If file is edited, make sure the changes
####> are applicable to all of those.
#### **--uidmap**=*[flags]container_uid:from_uid[:amount]*

Run the container in a new user namespace using the supplied UID mapping. This
option conflicts with the **--userns** and **--subuidname** options. This
option provides a way to map host UIDs to container UIDs. It can be passed
several times to map different ranges.

> The *amount* value is optional and it is assumed to be **1** if not given.

Reviewer: I think you need to talk about flags too here, at least briefly. Perhaps?
```suggestion
The possible values of the optional *flags* are discussed further down on this page.
The *amount* value is optional and assumed to be **1** if not given.
```

and I'm not married to that suggestion if you have a better thought.

| 1                     | $FIRST_RANGE_ID        | $FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH |
| 1+$FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH | $SECOND_RANGE_ID       | $SECOND_RANGE_LENGTH|

By default providing **--uidmap** or **--gidmap** replaces the whole mapping.

> If only one of those two are given, by default the other one is copied,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If only one of those two is given, the other one is copied by default. 
```

> so if you want to change only one of the two, you should provide both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if only one value of the two needs to be changed, both values should be provided.
```

When running as rootless, you may want to map a specific host group
that additionally has ben subordinated to you at _/etc/subgid_, without
specifying the rest of the mapping. This can be done by passing
**--gidmap=+*container_gid*:*@host_gid*:1**. This uses the *+* sign
to specify that we want to extend the default mapping, and not replace
it. It also uses the *@* sign to specify that the mapping refers to the
host namespace, which is the parent of the intermediate namespace. For instance,
if you belong to the additional group 1002 and that group is subordinated
to you with `usermod --add-subgids 1002-1002 $USER`, you can map that
group into the container with: **--gidmap=+10000:@1002:1**. If you
combine this mapping, with **--group-add=keep-groups**, your user in the
container will belong to group 10000 and files that belong to the group
1002 in the host will appear as owned by 10000 inside the container.

> 

Reviewer: Please no pro-nouns in the man pages.  I'll try to work out the "you" and "your" words that I'm seeing quickly within a comment or three.

| 1+$FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH | $SECOND_RANGE_ID        | $SECOND_RANGE_LENGTH|

  `Referencing a host ID from the parent namespace`

As a rootless user, the given host ID in **--uidmap** or **--gidmap**
is mapped from the *intermediate namespace* generated by podman. Sometimes
it is desirable to refer directly at the *host namespace*. It is possible
to manually do so, by running `podman unshare cat /proc/self/gid_map`,
finding the desired host id at the second column of the output, and getting
the corresponding intermediate id from the first column.

Podman can perform all that by preceding the host id in the mapping
with the `@` symbol. For instance, by specifying `--gidmap 100000:@2000:1`,
podman will look up the intermediate id corresponding to host id `2000` and
it will map the found intermediate id to the container id `100000`. The
given host id must have been subordinated (otherwise it would not be mapped
into the intermediate space in the first place), and the `amount` of any
mapping using the `@` symbol must be of size 1, because consecutive host
id mappings may not be consecutive mappings at the intermediate id

> namespace.

Author: I will implement support for size > 1 following this description:

>  `Referencing a host ID from the parent namespace`
>
>As a rootless user, the given host ID in **--uidmap** or **--gidmap**
>is mapped from the *intermediate namespace* generated by podman. Sometimes
>it is desirable to refer directly at the *host namespace*. It is possible
>to manually do so, by running `podman unshare cat /proc/self/gid_map`,
>finding the desired host id at the second column of the output, and getting
>the corresponding intermediate id from the first column.
>
>Podman can perform all that by preceding the host id in the mapping
>with the `@` symbol. For instance, by specifying `--gidmap 100000:@2000:1`,
>podman will look up the intermediate id corresponding to host id `2000` and
>it will map the found intermediate id to the container id `100000`. The
>given host id must have been subordinated (otherwise it would not be mapped
>into the intermediate space in the first place).
>
>**If the length is greater than one, for instance with `--gidmap 100000:@2000:2`,
>podman will map host ids `2000` and `2001` to `100000` and `100001` respectively,
>regardless of how the intermediate mapping is defined.**

I think this is what any user would expect. With this notation, the user may not even be
aware that an intermediate mapping exists

| 1                     | $FIRST_RANGE_ID         | $FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH |
| 1+$FIRST_RANGE_LENGTH | $SECOND_RANGE_ID        | $SECOND_RANGE_LENGTH|

  `Referencing a host ID from the parent namespace`

As a rootless user, the given host ID in **--uidmap** or **--gidmap**

> is mapped from the *intermediate namespace* generated by podman. Sometimes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is mapped from the *intermediate namespace* generated by Podman. Sometimes
```

it is desirable to refer directly at the *host namespace*. It is possible
to manually do so, by running `podman unshare cat /proc/self/gid_map`,
finding the desired host id at the second column of the output, and getting
the corresponding intermediate id from the first column.

Podman can perform all that by preceding the host id in the mapping
with the `@` symbol. For instance, by specifying `--gidmap 100000:@2000:1`,
podman will look up the intermediate id corresponding to host id `2000` and
it will map the found intermediate id to the container id `100000`. The
given host id must have been subordinated (otherwise it would not be mapped
into the intermediate space in the first place).

If the length is greater than one, for instance with `--gidmap 100000:@2000:2`,

> podman will map host ids `2000` and `2001` to `100000` and `100001` respectively,

Reviewer: Except when being used in a command example, it should be 'Podman'.

```suggestion
Podman will map host ids `2000` and `2001` to `100000` and `100001`, respectively,
```

regardless of how the intermediate mapping is defined.

  `Extending previous mappings`

Some mapping modifications may be cumbersome. For instance, a user
starts with a mapping such as `--gidmap="0:0:65000"`, that needs to be
changed such as the parent id `1000` is mapped to container id `100000`
instead, leaving container id `1` unassigned. The corresponding `--gidmap`
becomes `--gidmap="0:0:1" --gidmap="2:2:65534" --gidmap="100000:1:1"`.

This notation can be simplified using the `+` flag, that takes care of
breaking previous mappings removing any conflicting assignment with
the given mapping. The flag is given before the container id
as follows: `--gidmap="0:0:65000" --gidmap="+100000:1:1"`

>  flag      | Example       | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Flag      | Example       | Description
```

This can be done with **--gidmap "+g*container_gid*:@*host_gid*"**

Where:

- The host GID is given through the `@` symbol
- The mapping of this GID is not copied over to **--usermap** thanks to the `g` flag.
- The rest of the container IDs will be mapped starting from 0 to n,
  with all the remaining subordinated GIDs, thanks to the `+` flag.

For instance, if a user belongs to the group `2000` and that group is
subordinated to that user (with `usermod --add-subgids 2000-2000 $USER`),
the user can map the group into the container with: **--gidmap=+g100000:@2000**.

If this mapping is combined with the option, **--group-add=keep-groups**, the
process in the container will belong to group `100000`, and files belonging
to group `2000` in the host will appear as being owned by group `100000`
inside the container.

    podman run --group-add=keep-groups --gidmap="+100000:@2000" ...

  `No subordinate UIDs`

Even if a user does not have any subordinate UIDs in  _/etc/subuid_,
**--uidmap** can be used to map the normal UID of the user to a
container UID by running `podman <<subcommand>> --uidmap $container_uid:0:1 --user $container_uid ...`.

  `Pods`

> The **--uidmap** flag cannot be called in conjunction with the **--pod** flag as a uidmap cannot be set on the container level when in a pod.

Reviewer: Since you are introducing the use of "flags", it's even more important to call the options "options" rather than flags.
```suggestion
The **--uidmap** option cannot be called in conjunction with the **--pod** option as a uidmap cannot be set on the container level when in a pod.
```
